my favorite coding languages fortran for and I know you know you can get
a copy of fortran for anymore but that's what I started out with
and like an awful lot of people I you know what I really enjoy coding
it's what I consider on the rights of Google fortran and joy during
that these days though I probably spend more time reading PHP for
websites and Java scripts for you know questionnaires to life than I
do writing fortran but for trend is still my favorite language not
a question how do you I feel like a field of programming your sciences
I'm in computer science since nineteen seventy one in computer science
has changed tremendously in that time when I took my first course
in computers so I was structure on how to use for training for program
one of Seymour craze for supercomputers the CDC sixty five hundred
and that was wonderful and exciting work it turned out was really
good at it sold my professor you talk to me one day about what I
had in mind for profession and I told him I really would like to state
in computers and he told me all day and this is remember nineteen
seventy one you you won't be able to make any money in computers because
soon there will only be two or three big computers in this nation
state probably at big universities like one of cal tech and wanted
in my tea and one at university of Illinois and everybody would
use those computers and they're all feel very few compu to programmers
doing all the program so I did not pursue it because I didn't think
it was a growing field from what he told me and I think he was giving
me good honest advice but it was certainly wrong because of course
now everybody in his uncle has a computer not only on his desk but
sometimes on his wrist watch and half the people playing with it
do a little programming one kind or another so that's what's changed
it's just huge compared to what we thought it would be in nineteen
seventy one how much free time have you had in your career my career
has provided me more for it was a wonderfully yeah just capital both
of my crews who provided me more free time than I could use I'd you
know you'd be surprised how much of the time when I get free time
I spend it program and because that's what I love to do I spend it writing
because that's what I love to do and in the military if you had
a spare time at all not infrequent was spent working on another cryptologic
problem we're trying to breaking new code or something of
that nature so I have had more free time that I really wanted from
from my career I've never felt constrained by that my wife unfortunate
would tell you a very different story about my lack of free time
spend with her how ethnically diverse as your Stanfield I think it's
important that everyone have an ability and the opportunity to participate
in any kind of work in one displayed and I am very unhappy when
I hear about anybody who feels like they have been given a fair
chance but it is my belief from what I've been able to observe that
almost every place I've been there have been some representatives of
virtually every ethnic group every gender every or you know sexual
orientation preference available to people if they wanted to take it
but I would be misleading you if I didn't say there seems to be some
ethnic groups who seem to excel in this kind of work and who you see
more often than other areas and it's frequently in computers it's
amazing how many of the people I see at a conference if you just look
around are of Asian or a sub continent Indian descent because those
two ethnic groups seem to produce very good computer scientist but
you see somebody from every conceivable group so you know that it's
available to people who want to pursue it the more difficult the joints
as our mind as far as access into stem fields I think places I've
worked had been very open to everybody in fact have tried to aggressively
go out and recruit people from different ethnic groups and
make sure the gender Max the gender say the question and is it more
difficult to join stand as a female or as a minority I can only speak
from my own experience but my own experience has been that every
place I've worked it's been very open to anyone based on their ability
to do the job that seems to be the only criterion the people look
for if there's been any kind of variance from that has been the aggressive
attempts to recruit people from different ethnic groups in from
different gender is to make sure the gender balance is correct but
I have seen I have never seen any kind of attempt to keep one group
from doing this trip no one would is it is a more difficult joins
them as a female or as a minority speaking from my own experience the
ability for a female or a member of the minority to join he stem
career he is completely done then unhampered in the United States I
have worked in the military at work for businesses and I've worked in
academia and I have never seen anyone suggest that they were restricting
hiring somebody because of their sex gender ethnicity for any
reason other than are they capable of doing the work so I think it's
pretty wide open and there is even an aggressive attempt to try to
achieve a better balance of ethnicity and gender within stem careers
in both academia and industry what what characterizes a good career
one of the things that I frequently hear people say is that this career
would make you more money than that career but it's been my experience
that all of us are going to make enough money to satisfy our
needs and even our caprices so the most important thing in a career
is to do something with the issue too Hayden series of topless once
so you get some sense of self fulfillment I team and I get a job that
was necessary I did it well we achieved our goals the team that
I worked with were all satisfied with what we did so I think the most
critical thing in pursuing a career is finding a career it's going
to give you that feeling at the end there will be enough money to to
live on and there will be enough to have a good life if you pursue
that career goal that will give you that self fulfillment what don't
you like about staff or your I like it all I've been in doubt of stem
careers since I graduated from high school one way or the other
that's a literal truth and I've really enjoyed all of the work I've
done stem and I enjoy it still to this day did thing that I would really
like to see the different about stem is I wish but government sometimes
who is a little more responsive to supporting the stem research
it will make a difference so frequently the government takes the
approach of we need to pass a law and keep somebody from doing it
rather than that we need to fund some research than we can encourage
people to do the right thing rather than trying to force them to do
the right thing why should so sometimes you still got your that's a
good description let me see if I get the guidance that went say it
again why should someone choose to go into your system I have been and
still both cryptology ended and computer science for a long